---
title: "A quieter week, relatively speaking"
date: 2026-03-07
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
excerpt: ""
---

# commentary on my life

went off and got design samples, spent way too much $ on it even. but now I have samples of every reasonably priced option for kitchen handles that isn't "vintage", and I do mean *every*. also all the cabjaks benchtops, and all the decent kaboodle ones (and a few that aren't), and cabinet colours, and vinyl...there'll be a few hundred bucks worth of ongoing entertainment in the design crate once I'm done with it. 

work turned out to have some free cheap ply they let me take. also a whole crate, but I got that home and then realised it was too big for one person to comfortably handle, so it can't be my design crate, I don't know what I'm going to do with it. 

insurance is a bit fiddly and I think next time I'll let the PM handle that one. apparently the insurer has had bad experiences with the company selling me house2, rip. 

visited demo yard. pretty neat place. not always a lot of savings once they've taken their cut, though. 

my bathroom tiles look like ceramic but there's probably asbestos in the adhesive. there's also vinyl on the kitchen, laundry, and toilet floors, and that stuff is almost certainly asbestos. website says $40-100/sqm for removal, plus testing cost. to discuss with builder. we may be able to keep the existing bathroom tile flooring, with the renovation, but what a shitty colour it is. 

did I mention the change of plans with the garage location? yeah, that's official now. also downloaded freecad, but then I'd have to learn freecad. I can barely autocad. (no, really, I can copy and paste in autocad.) 

when auckland council says you get the property file in 10 working days, the first day is the one after you put in the request. also they mean exactly 10, not within 10. I am so glad I'm not building in auckland council's area of influence. 

it's now possible to get a good (well, good specs) van under 10k again. this is a problem for post-refinance me. but I have been spending way too long looking at kitchens for removal. I miss my van, even if it wouldn't really be cost-effective to just randomly go picking up good secondhand deals for the renovation this time around. 

---

Things I know now: 
- polyflor vinyl samples are free
- so are cabjaks samples (but you have to pay shipping)
- kaboodle samples are not free
- resene shop attendants like their job
