---
title: "the promised update"
date: 2026-04-18
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
excerpt: ""
---

Okay, details. 

I've signed for another house with a different company. This other house is slightly larger in footprint, but with a lot more wasted space. I wouldn't have picked fancy bathrooms and a walk-in wardrobe over decent sized bedrooms and lounge, but someone sure did at some point. It's going to cost me overall probably a little less than my second-choice option this time around (not less than the original house2 though), it'll be less hassle, and I get fancy bathrooms. I also get downlights. Can't win them all. Ugh. House will be delivered end of May, it's a firm date. 

The first company hasn't even returned my deposit yet - it's currently finally "with their payments team for processing" after I escalated in writing, but clearly their payments team doesn't process payments every week. Next step will be to get my lawyer involved - I'm picking I will have to do this to get the compensation they keep promising me verbally. They could have just...been helpful and cooperative, seriously, do you know how many secondhand house buyers are repeat customers?! Probably less of this company's client base than other house yards', comparatively speaking, if I had to make a *completely wild and unfounded guess*. (No, it doesn't count as helpful and cooperative if they're constantly sales-ing at me about buying *literally any other house at all that comes from that company, even after I told them we were done and asked for the deposit back*. I made a good faith effort with them and found that there was no comparable replacement house available from the company, I signed for a different house from someone else as a result, just return my deposit already.) 

A comparison, since I have the data: this time around, the search for a house took 24 hours over two real-time weeks. It spanned three companies, visiting two yards and one on-site. Plus one phone call, but that house ended up being already under contract to someone else, and one cancelled trip that would have been a couple more on-sites. The previous search took 40 hours over 3 real-time weeks, including one very long day I posted about earlier. That was 3 companies worth of Auckland viewings (one yard, rest in situ, 7+ total houses) and a 4th company in Hamilton separately (5 houses in yard), plus comms. I got a lot more efficient this time around. Yes, I have in fact been keeping timesheets since the day I offered on the property. 

This round, I also picked up a little bit more information to dial-in my renovations costing with, and the number of a good local builder. Silver linings. 

Uh, let's see. The trees are down, the site is clear, it's ready for the move. I'll replant when the ground isn't about to be torn up again. Going to ask someone about planting close to the council pipes, which they might get antsy about even though some of the trees I had pulled were also basically right on top of council pipes too. I want to put a tree right in the front yard so the fucking dumbasses stop using that space, seriously, just because the front yard isn't fenced doesn't make it a public parking lot. Some neighbours want to split the cost of fencing - this is reasonable, half the fencing is falling down, but the neighbour who I definitely know wants it is on the side with the good fencing. 
