---
title: "...almost there..."
date: 2026-05-24
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
excerpt: ""
---

As it turns out, I mis-heard "by the weekend of" as "on the weekend of", so the house comes in a week earlier than I had thought. Luckily my PM is onto it. Unluckily I chose to manage my own insurance, so we're scrambling a little bit, but did I mention I have an excellent broker? It should all be resolved on Monday, that is, tomorrow. 

The house has been loaded onto the truck. Just, y'know, incidentally. Site has been cleared ready for its arrival. It'll come in on Tuesday or Wednesday morning. 

(I'll edit this post with pictures when I get around to it.) 

We will use a different draftie next time. This one has had weeks to put everything together and we were supposed to submit BC two weeks ago, and we only just got the site plan today (surveyor will use it to peg out where the house is supposed to land). Luckily my surveyor is willing to shuffle things around and make sure he has a guy out there tomorrow. But considering exactly how much chasing and threatening has been involved in getting this one document, I have no high hopes for the rest of BC required documentation to arrive in a timely manner. My PM considers that he might as well keep on their ass and finish out the job; if it was me I would have fired him anyway and gotten someone else involved, but I'm not the one who has to do the chasing. 

Still, that's a next week problem. Right now my immediate plan is to wander in with the builder, measure stuff up, and get him to send a guy for my replacement windows and door that I'll need to make the house suit the site. We can renovate while it's on temporary piles. This is a thing that I can do. 
