---
title: "First Post"
date: 2026-07-20
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
  - Farm
excerpt: ""
---

A LOT has happened. 

First up, the council granted building consent. I am delighted to say that SWDC does not follow the same habits as Auckland council in running out the clock - they turned around the BC itself in 17 working days (out of 20 possible); with one RFI that was responded to same-day, and then it was approved the very next day! Truly this new architect is a wonder and a marvel, and we shall be recommending his services to all and sundry. 

This, of course, sent me into quite the flurry of scheduling and paperwork. BC granted, means we are now allowed to pile and connect the house to services, means refinance! I am quite assured by my project manager that the timeline he put forward will work - and so I can settle earlier than the previously arranged 19th, and so I can head down to the farm and talk to tradies about work required, and all that, before I go head-down into my day job. And while my very capable PM is taking care of the relocate project, I have to do all my own scheduling on the farm side of things. 

Unfortunately it seems that there will be extra costs involved in deeper piles, now that those drawings have finally made their way to the house mover. Oh well, can't win them all, and indeed I knew going into this project that the piles were going to be an issue. Admittedly costs have inflated a little since I got the last estimate of "what will bad geotech cost". But that's a thing that happens. 

Also renovating house2 costs money. Not a surprise. But ugh. 

Now if only Powerco would cooperate...

## approximate timeline

- 8/7 BC granted
- week of 20/7 piling (holes, inspection, inspection, filling, inspection, lowering - it's kind of a job)
- week of 27/7 services connected, registered valuer
- week of 3/8 refinance and settle farm
- week of 10/8 I'm sure there will be something
- week of 17/8 head-down at work for 3 months
