---
title: "finally, the hard part is over"
date: 2026-04-24
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
  - Tokoroa 2
excerpt: ""
---

## Current project

Emailed a follow-up and that finally got my deposit refunded, woohoo. I will sit on this money for about two weeks, use some of it for expenses (some of which have already come up), and then return it in time for the May interest rollover date. 

Auckland council delivered the file right on schedule on the 10th working day this time. I appreciate that the developer of house2's current site made all his new townhouses technically standalone - shared walls and roofs are a nightmare. Unhappily, the original plans were scanned in super low res, pretty difficult to read; also the previous owners were very renovation-happy and so I waded through a ton of random documents to find the ones I needed. So that's my documentation sorted, I now just have two little forms left to fill, and we should be good to go from here. 

Other things that also happened this week:
- CCTV of wastewater line under section, and pegged its actual location, so now we know where and how deep it is. 
- builder inspection report of house2 (a council requirement) came back
- different builder took down the wall with the extra weatherboards that I wanted, it's now sitting in the house2 living room. 10/10 would use this guy again! 
- builder sent through an estimate for my list of required renovations

Next week, the surveyor and the draftie have at it, and the civils do their stormwater redesign (thanks for nothing, original house2 company). Then we can submit BC. 

One of the weeks upcoming, I'll go measure up the renovations so my builder can hit the ground running with that. I'll need to pick up a sliding door and a couple of windows secondhand, double glazed of course. I also gotta think about whether I want to recarpet, because you can get away with wood floors in Auckland, but not in Tokoroa. This would be easy if the whole house was wood floors, but no, the bedrooms are carpeted and the hallway is not. So I can't just carpet that up new, because then the old carpet will look terrible by comparison. Maybe I'll just do the lounge only and throw a runner down for the hallway. 

## Next project

I have started eyeballing round 2 candidates. First pass look on trademe: 15 potentials, of which 8 aren't immediately eliminated for one or another reason (flood zones, wastewater lines, access). Out of 8, two standout options (one easier than the other); two maybes (access through neighbour's driveway); and four with multiple caveats (aka there are easier options). Mostly all of these were listed in the last month. A deeper dive eliminated both the standout candidates and one of the maybes: one wouldn't make money, one has vendors unwilling to meet the market so it wouldn't make money, one would need impractically high foundations to meet council requirements. 

Then I called my PM - he'll talk to the neighbour of the other maybe-house3, and it turns out that neighbour also owns a good candidate that he's made a few noises about selling over the years. Because of course my PM knows exactly who we're talking about based on the address. Small towns, man. 

I also found the two best (for a certain value of "best") council files of my life to date. One's a stack of letters to the owner saying "your property is an overgrown fire hazard, clean it up please" spanning about 5 years, and the other is a stack of letters to the owner saying "there are no plans to build state housing next door and you would have heard about it if there were, please stop asking". 

The bank has approved me to buy the next one once this one is on piles and connected to services. My PM expects I can probably get something under contract in a month, and we'll look to settle in July. It might not be either of these two current options. 
