---
title: "Signing my life away"
date: 2026-02-22
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
excerpt: "I bought a house, so I bought another house so I can put more house on my house."
---

# events as they happened

viewed a bunch of houses, like, 7 of them, and then I finished out my 16 hour day by writing up notes and stuff to send to builder. turns out my initial stack ranking of houses was...pretty good actually, but there were a few surprises. there's a broker. one of the vendors has Opinions on house movers. that was a really long day. it comes down to 3 options, we'll say. getting builder to weigh in. and expert advice. also I learnt what exactly akl council is doing. 

that all happened on settlement day, no muss no fuss, now I have an invoice from the independent trustee. 

builder sent me back opinions and ballpark prices for my top ranked houses. added to PPTCAD and made a final selection. it's a 3br house about 100m2 that will be renovated to have 2 toilets. (this is true of all the houses in the final top 3 selection, actually.) 

also I found people listing secondhand cabins on TM and FB, you just have to wade through the shit. but cabin decision comes after house decision. 

also also put numbers through and now I have a decent estimate of expected spending until piles refinance time. This eliminates one of my 3 options. 

so of course I went to meet my PM after work on Saturday (the one which was rescheduled from Wednesday, which freed me up to do house viewings), and then I spent Sunday working through my PPTCAD and making a final decision. 

I have work tomorrow. 

---

# commentary

I spent way too long agonising over this, guys. It came down to one of two houses: both 3br, ~100m2, potential to easily renovate to a second toilet. Both would have cost roughly the same to get on site and renovated. On the one hand, *massive light filled windows and vaulted ceilings*. On the other hand, *overall site and house layout*. Eventually it got tie-broken by me going back around to trusty old paintCAD - one of them turned out to have 4br reshuffling potential with a bit more effort, and the other did not. 

I was leaning towards that one already because, well, it had a higher potential ceiling in terms of value-add. The other one, most of the renovation cost was actually repair cost from a couple of original design features that couldn't come along. I like high variance, I get to influence outcomes more. (High variance also comes with higher potential for discovered work and cost blowouts, c'est la vie.) But the 4br potential sealed the deal. 

4 bedrooms means getting a cabin on site is a lot less important. I could do it anyway. Site layout continues to have great potential for one. But the 5th bedroom doesn't increase rent as much as the 4th does. 

this has been a really long week I'm so glad I have a PM now

---

# project status
- formally engaged a local PM experienced in similar projects, to handle coordinating all the various people who need to make site visits. 
- there is exactly one geotech used by most of the local property devs. my PM also recommends him, apparently the council loves him. 
- signed for house2 and paid deposit

# next up
- insurance broker, to get appropriate cover for the move
- council stuff?
- for some reason, the carpet guy and the plumber haven't come back around yet with quotes for the house1 work
- surveyor's back in country, I should remind him I exist
