---
title: "Better news"
date: 2026-03-28
categories:
  - update
tags:
  - Tokoroa 1
excerpt: ""
---

Petrol prices just went crazy. I know about risk and stuff, but also, there's a fuel clause on my contractor's quote that says if fuel prices go nuts between quote and job, they can tack on extra cost. 

Did you know that NZ has a couple of different elevation systems in use? Well, now we know SWDC uses NZVD 2016. 

Anyway, no cabin on this property. BC plan is pretty well finalised. We good. My PM is handling things and making me pay people. 

---

Pending confirmation from the other mog, this Mog is now closed (presumably temporarily) to investment. I have access to all the money I could reasonably use and my project load is maxed out (and then some). Two relocate projects going concurrently, plus a full time job, plus everything that goes with living alone, plus hobbies and personal projects and friends. 

My banker tells me I can buy project 2 after the house is on piles, instead of waiting until CCC, as long as I hit a certain number on the interim valuation. I've done the math and come up with my own number beyond that, and the agent who sold me the house confirmed the likely final valuation is in line with what I thought. So we'll keep an eye on the market, start looking properly once BC applied, but don't offer until BC issued. It's still going to be probably 4 weeks between offer and settlement (longer settlement favours me), which is time for the house to be tied down and services connected, and the valuer to come through. 

Remaining uncertainties: powerco (waiting out their 6-8 weeks from when it was applied), renovations (expect a quote once it's on site), actual intermediate and final valuations. 

Things I could do better next project: 
- imma get the sparky to apply to powerco as soon as we go unconditional. waiting sucks. 
- fully renovated one piece move instead would be less work. also probably cost less, all up, so even if it values for less it's a wash. 

Project 3 is likely to have two prereqs: project 1 is ccc'd, project 2 is on piles and connected to services. We'll cross that bridge when we come to it. 
